# ETL pipeline using Python and Postgres

This project creates and loads a Redshift database for a fictionary song app.  The database is setup as a star schema.  Fact and dimension tables are designed following the OLAP methodology.  Along with the database, an ETL pipeline is designed and coded in Python to transfer data from files in two local directories within an AWS S3 instance.  The ETL pipline transfers the dataset from S3 to staging tables on an AWS Redshift cluster.  SQL statements are then ran to create the analytics tables from these staging tables.

## Files Included in repository

- **create_tables.py** drops and creates your tables. You run this file to reset your tables before each time you run your ETL scripts.
- **etl&#46;py** loads data from S3 to staging tables on Redshift where it copies the datafiles to staging tables. Then loads data from staging tables to analytics tables on Redshift.
- **sql_queries.py** contains all your sql queries, and is imported into etl.py script
- **README&#46;md** provides discussion on your project.
- **dwh.cfg** configuration file containing the location to the S3 and Redshift resources and roles

## Create and Populate the Tables
- Run **create_tables.py** to create your database and tables within Redshift.
- Run **etl&#46;py** transfers dataset from S3 to Redshift, create and load databases.



## Project Datasets
The two datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:

- Song data: **s3://udacity-dend/song_data**
- Log data: **s3://udacity-dend/log_data**
- Log data json path: **s3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json**


## Song Dataset

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the [Million Song Dataset](https://labrosa.ee.columbia.edu/millionsong/). Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

```bash
song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
````

And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.
```python
{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}
```


## Log Dataset

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.
```bash
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json
```